# CreditCardFraudDetection

Imagine you are working for a leading credit card company called ‘Cred Financials’. The company continuously monitors its customers’ credit card transactions, be it in any part of the world, to discover and dismiss fraudulent ones. The company also has a strong support team to address customer issues and queries.
 
Credit card fraud is defined as a form of identity theft in which an individual uses someone else’s credit card information to make purchases or to withdraw funds from the account. The incidences of such fraudulent transactions have skyrocketed as the world has moved towards a digital era. The following statistics will help you understand the gravity of the situation.
With a rising number of fraud cases, the company’s major focus is to provide its customers with a delightful experience while ensuring that security is not compromised.
 
You, as a big data engineer, must architect and build a solution to cater to the following requirements:

 

Fraud detection solution: This is a feature to detect fraudulent transactions, wherein once a cardmember swipes his/her card for payment, the transaction should be classified as fraudulent or authentic based on a set of predefined rules. If fraud is detected, then the transaction must be declined. Please note that incorrectly classifying a transaction as fraudulent will incur huge losses to the company and also provoke negative consumer sentiment. 
Customers' information: The relevant information about the customers needs to be continuously updated on a platform from where the customer support team can retrieve relevant information in real time to resolve customer complaints and queries.
 
 
 Data
Now, let’s understand the types of data you will deal with. 

 

The following tables containing data come into consideration for this problem:

card_member (The cardholder data is added to/updated in this table by a third-party service) 
card_id – Card number,
member_id – 15-digit member ID of the cardholder,
member_joining_dt – Date and time of joining of a new member,
card_purchase_dt – Date when the card was purchased,
country – Country in which the card was purchased,
city – City in which the card was purchased
card_transactions (All incoming transactions(fraud/genuine) swiped at POS terminals are stored in this table. Earlier the transactions were classified as fraud or genuine in a traditional way. However, with an explosive surge in the number of transactions, a Big Data solution is needed to authenticate the incoming transactions and enter the transaction data accordingly):
card_id – Card number,
member_id – 15-digit member ID of the cardholder,
amount – Amount swiped with respect to the card_id,
postcode – Zip code at which this card was swiped (marking the location of an event),
pos_id – Merchant’s POS terminal ID, using which the card has been swiped,
transaction_dt – date and time of the transaction event,
status – Whether transaction was approved or not, with Genuine/Fraud value
member_score (The member credit score data is added to / updated in this table by a third-party service):
member_id – 15-digit member ID who has this card,
score – The score assigned to a member defining his/her credit history, generated by upstream systems
 

Since card_member and member_score tables are updated by the third-party services, they are stored in a central AWS RDS. You will be given the already classified card_transactions table data in the form of a CSV file, which you can load in your NoSQL database.

 

The other type of data is the real-time streaming data generated by the POS (Point of Sale) systems in JSON format. The streaming data looks like this:

Transactional payload (data) attributes sent by POS terminals’ gateway API on to the Kafka topic :

card_id – Card number,

member_id – 15-digit member ID of the cardholder,

amount – Amount swiped with respect to the card_id,

pos_id – Merchant’s POS terminal ID, using which the card has been swiped,

postcode – Zip code at which this card was swiped (marking the location of an event),

transaction_dt – date and time of the transaction event

Here is an example of a JSON payload structure that gets produced:

 

{

“card_id”:348702330256514,

“member_id”: 000037495066290,

“amount”: 9084849,

“pos_id”: 614677375609919,

“postcode”: 33946,

“transaction_dt”: “11-02-2018 00:00:00”

}
